{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs24\lang9 sp\par
\par
ABOUT ME - My name is Richard, I am 27 and have had an interesting life. I progressed well at school, leaving with good grades and the idea of studying Medicine at University. That is what I did. Eventually after three years of studying I decided it wasn't for me and I left with some mental health difficulties. subsequent to this I've struggled to find a fulfilling career path.  Thankfully I've ended up at Codenation on their dev course. Although finding and getting a place on the course was only by chance, I have thoroughly enjoyed the content so far. The course can be demanding in terms of the time-frame tasks have to be completed in, but that is an essential skill to have. I hope to progress to a career within this sector, or at least within a similar vein.\par
1.1 Describing the purpose of IT in modern business \par
Data storage, manipulation and communication are a huge part of modern business practice. Information Technology has evolved to allow for a huge amount of data circulating through networks (including the internet) and more data storage than ever. The user base of computers has increased alongside this, partly due to the accessibility of computer systems. Business are therefore finding that they can use IT to automate certain processes, access the now massive user base of the internet and store data collected from these interactions and processes.\par
1.2 Describing methods, skills and resources needed to complete digital projects \par
You need to know what you're going to do, the best method for achieving this (some knowledge of applications and knowledge sources). You need to know what you're aiming for. You need to know the minimum you can do to achieve a viable product (MVP).\par
1.3 Plan and carry out tasks using IT \f1\endash  e.g. making your website. How will you plan it? \par
Include a link to your Trello board. \par
\f0\lang2057 Planning - Decide how I'm going to approach \f1\lang9\par
1.4 Describe the risks that might impact digital projects \endash  what causes digital \par
projects to fail? Why? \par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.celerity.com/5-reasons-digital-projects-fail-the-forgotten-role-of-business-process }}{\fldrslt{https://www.celerity.com/5-reasons-digital-projects-fail-the-forgotten-role-of-business-process\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs24\par
\f0\lang2057 1. Misalignment with business processes - Using the wrong technologies (software and hardware for the job). This can occur when people don't understand what is being aimed for and fall for the "hype" of certain tech. Ultimately what is used does not meet the criteria of what is needed for the prject to succeed.\par
2. Lack of cross-functional expertise - This occurs when there is a lack of spread of abilities amongst a team. It leads to certain areas of the project being unfulfilled or poorly done. For example, a website creation business may hire 5 html experts without any marketing experts or other important skilled people.\par
3. Limited digital strategy - Not balancing out your digital presence and relying on one thing imparticular, such as quality of websites produced to sell the business will lead to failure in many cases.\par
4. Fixed plans that don't account for change - Adaptability is a huge part of a project/businesses's success. You have to account for all the things that happen, both good and bad and be able to react in a feedback loop. If something works, keep it. If something doesn't, think about change.\par
5. Overambition - Having a fixed vision of a product that is unachievable with the resources you have (time, money etc). Defining a minimum viable product is very important so that at the very least you can look towards releasing that within the deadline. This is linked closely with having flexible plans. Be adaptable \i and \i0 accommodating.\f1\lang9\par
\f0\lang2057 No money, no time, no vision, no planning, no teamwork, and even if you have all of those - you burn out. All about balance.\par
1.5 Describe how you would go about selecting and using IT systems and software \f1\endash\par
how do you select the right kind of technology for the job?\par
\f0 The scope of the project ultimately determines the software and technology that are used. This includes the end product that's to be produced, the customers, the size of the business, including the number of computer users within the business. For example -\par
Hardware for a business that creates websites would largely be determined by the number of pe\par
ople within the business and also the \par
SOFTWARE NEXT.\par
1.6 Describe and provide analysis on how your chosen technologies have helped you achieve your outcomes. \f1\endash  How has Trello helped you plan and how can git and\par
GitHub help with your codes version control\par
\f0 1.7 1.7 Describe legal guidelines and constraints that impact digital projects \f1\endash  How does\par
GDPR impact digital projects?\par
\f0 Data accessibility and sharing is a huge part of digital projects. Determining who has access to information can be difficult and recent changes in legislation such as the introduction of the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulations) has changed this further recently. GDPR was introduced on May 25th 2018 ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.wired.co.uk/article/what-is-gdpr-uk-eu-legislation-compliance-summary-fines-2018 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.wired.co.uk/article/what-is-gdpr-uk-eu-legislation-compliance-summary-fines-2018\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ) and sought to modernise previous laws on data storage and access. Essentially these regulations were brought about it order to make it easier for people to access the data that is stored about them, and to ensure that those who collect the data outline exactly what they are collecting from customers. There are, now, usually very specific checks asking whether the customer would allow their data to be stored and used.\line The point of this is to increase transparency in the whole process and formalise the data flow process more. On the whole it makes it more difficult for businesses to collect data as there are more barriers and it makes it easier for customers to decide and see how their data is being used and manipulated.\par
Unit 1 Outcome 2\par
2.1 Review the ongoing use of IT tools and change approach as needed \f1\endash  in making your own website, are you happy with the tools you used? E.g. Visual Studio Code, Trello\par
\f0 There are a variety of tools I've implemented to create a website. The main html and CSS files were created and modified using Visual Studio Code. That has allowed me to more swiftly edit the contents due to it auto-completing sections of code (e.g. end tags for elements in HTML). It also highlights where there are issues with a wavy red line. That is invaluable as it has allowed me to easily identify and correct errors, which is not achieved as easily in a simple text editor. \par
Other tools include Trello, for project management and github for storage of files and version control. These have been introduced to me for the first time during the course and have been invaluable for controlling the flow of project development. I've been very happy with the outcome and in future projects, although I may look at different tools, I would look for those of a similar type.\par
2.2 Describe whether the IT tools selected were appropriate E.g. Visual Studio Code, Trello\par
2.3 Assess the strengths and weaknesses of your final project \f1\endash  are you happy with your website? Why? Why not? You should review it on the website itself in the interests of openness. What would you change?\par
\f0 My final project i.e. the website is designed in such a way that is simple to use. It does what it was designed to do which is to display information for people to find. It should be easy to use and the simplicity of my design allows for that. As such I am largely happy with it. The CSS allows for flexibility in sizing, based on the contents within the page. I've avoided using static sizes (based on pixels).\par
The main weakness is that the grid layout style I have used to organise the contents of all the pages is not actively visible on the page and is therefore quite hard to interpret and requires a large amount of active working out. There is also a question as to whether the website itself will display the same on different operating systems and browsers. There is only a limited ability to test this, both due to my lack of access to the hardware required and the time frame I have been given.\par
2.4 Describe further improvements you can make to your project\par
\par
2.5 Review outcomes to make sure they match requirements and are fit for purpose\f1\par
\f0\par
\fs32 Unit 1, Outcome 3\par
\fs24 3.1 Review the benefits and drawbacks of IT tools and systems used in terms of productivity and efficiency \f1\endash  could you have been more efficient when making your website? How? Could you have done it in teams?\f0  \par
In terms of tools used to write the website, VScode was used as the main software. It's a very effective tool as the design allows for quick creation and manipulation of different file types. The layout is such that you can quickly navigate the different webpages (.html) and any changes in the code are immediately highlighted, colour-coded and autocompleted. Combined with having several browsers open on a second screen, writing the HTML and CSS for the website was quick. \par
\par
\par
\f1\fs32 Unit 2, Outcome 1\fs24\par
\f0 1.1 Describing the content and layout for each page.\par
The website is designed very simply. There are multiple pages with similar layouts, and using the exact same style sheet for each one. The only difference between each page is the content of the central grid box. The links to each page are contained within separate, small individual boxes that are clickable. The hyperlink for each page is therefore contained within the grid itself. The main idea behind the layout is to set it out as simply and clearly as possible with good functionality.\f1\par
1.5 Describing copyright and other constraints affecting websites\par
\f0 Copyright is a legal term which defines how, when and where "created" information (e.g. photos and videos) can be used. Copyright is automatically assigned to any work that is created and becomes relevant when that work is utilised by someone or something else. Copyrighted work is protected and cannot be used, unless permission is given, in the following circumstances -\par
copying the work\par
distributing copies of it, whether free of charge or for sale\par
renting or lending copies of the work\par
performing, showing or playing the work in public\par
making an adaptation of the work\par
putting it on the internet\par
{\f1\fs32{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.gov.uk/copyright }}{\fldrslt{https://www.gov.uk/copyright\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs32\par
\f0\fs24 In some countries such as the UK, fair use allows the use of copyrighted material.\par
Fair use covers educational and informatory (e.g. commentary and criticism in a news article) media that makes use of copyrighted material.\par
1.6 Describing access issues that need taking into account - describe issues that\par
people with disabilities may face when using webpages and how we can overcome\par
them\f1\fs32\par
{\f0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/WAI-access-profiles }}{\fldrslt{https://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/WAI-access-profiles\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs32\par
\fs24 There are a variety of disabilities that can impact a persons ability to access and interpret the contents of webpages. These disabilities can be divided into visual, hearing, physical and cognitive and neurological disabilities.\par
Visual - This primarily affects the ability to see and interpret what is shown on screen. All facets of vision could be affected, including blurring of text, having a narrow field of view (i.e. tunnel vision), being able to see certain colours with colour deficiency (I am personally deuteranopic).  visual impairments can be adapted to on a simple scale by using easy to read fonts in a decent size and colourblind friendly pallettes. For more severe impairments, screen magnifiers, screen readers and text-to-speech software can be used.\par
Hearing - People may well be unable to hear the contents of videos and other audio output on a website. Having subtitles for all audio content on the site helps with this. Converting speech to text is essential.\par
Physical - These kinds of disabilities may impair a person's ability to type and use a mouse, and therefore to navigate a website. This may also stretch to voice interaction which may be a part of some webpages. This can partly be remedied by making websites compatiable with different pieces of hardware such as keyboards and different mice.\par
Cognitive and neurological disabilities - This includes a whole spectrum of impairments. On the whole these disabilities affect the ability to understand, remember and retain information. This can be remedied by having clearly organised, well laid out and well written (in some cases simply written) websites which are easily navigable.\par
1.7 Describe which are the appropriate filetypes for websites\par
.html and .css are the filetypes used for webpages. External CSS files contain the generic styles that are implemented within HTML pages and format the style.\par
There are many differnet filetypes that can be displayed and downloaded within webpages however. These include document files (.txt, .doc, .docx etc), image files (.jpg, .bmp, .png etc), video files (.mp4, .avi etc), audio files (.wav, .mp3, .mid etc), executables such as .exe, script files (.py, .sh etc) and compressed files such as .jar and .zip.\par
\f1\fs32\par
\f0\lang9\par
}
 